well the United Nations has added the
Israeli military to a global list of
offenders that have committed violations
against children the list aims to shame
parties to conflicts in the hope of
pushing them to implement measures to
better protect children Palestinian
militant groups Hamas and the Islamic
Jihad have also been added to the list
it forms part of an annual report on
children and armed conflict due to be
published in late June Israel has
criticized the un's decision to include
its military calling that decision
shameful well I'm joined Now by Alex sa
head of humanitarian policy and advocacy
at save the children International she
joins me from Washington DC it's good to
have you with us can you tell us more
about this un report that is going to
list both Israel's military and the
terrorist group Hamas as violating the
rights and protections of children I
mean this is a regular report that the
UN compiles
right exactly I mean the report hasn't
come out yet but what we know is that um
the UN has confirmed that Israel uh will
be listed um and you know we welcome
this decision because the the pace and
scale of grave violations committed
against children in Gaza has been
unprecedented um we also expect and have
called on Palestinian Islamic Jihad and
Hamas to also be listed um and you know
we expect the report to come out um in a
couple of weeks what we have seen in
Gaza is um just completely unprecedented
the the the scale of violations against
children including the killing of
children the maming of children um the
denial of humanitarian assistance
against children has just been
absolutely absolutely catastrophic and
you know human rights organizations and
humanitarian organizations have
continued to call um for a ceasefire in
Gaza um this is the only way to save
lives and it's the only way for
humanitarian organizations like ours to
deliver the humanitarian assistance
needed at scale um at the moment th this
report is being compiled by the UN
special representative for children in
armed conflict Beyond naming and
shaming what what do you hope what's the
be best case scenario um to come out of
this
report well this is one step towards
accountability so that's very important
to remember but to have a concrete
impact on children's lives what we need
is a ceasefire we have also called on
governments supplying weapons to parties
on the ground to also stop doing so and
stop fueling this crisis the only thing
that will make an impact right now is a
ceasefire and that's important to
remember I'm sir you're aware Israel's
prime minister has criticized the
decision by the UN Israel's ambass
ambassador to the UN has called it
disgusting um the leadership obviously
angry what does it mean for Democratic
countries or for the army of a
democratic country to be included in
this kind of
report you know these kinds of reports
should not be politicized any government
any party that um commits grave
violations against children should be
listed it's important that we hold these
actors to account and that we that you
know and call on them to stop their
violations against children no uh
government no entity should be above the
law Alex sa from save the children
International Alex we appreciate your
time tonight thank you